PREOPS-1335: Fall 2022 LSST Science Community Research Proposal Support (#9)
lsst/rtn-011: intro.tex

\section{Introduction}

> This note describes the plan for ensuring the Rubin community will have the data products and services necessary to produce high-impact early science during the time between commissioning and the first LSST Data Release, DR1.  

Reviewer: This statement is inconsistent with the definition of Early Science provided in the next subsection

> Early Science (ES) is defined as any science enabled by Rubin for its community through and including the first data release, Data Release 1 (DR1) .

Reviewer 2: Is this better: "
This note describes the plan for ensuring the Rubin community will have the data products and services necessary to produce high-impact early science during time between commissioning through, and including, the first data release, Data Release 1 (DR1). "

> Community expectations for early science are high due to the transformative nature of the Rubin data and the extensive amount of on-sky time planned in commissioning and science validation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Community expectations for early science are high due to the transformative nature of the Rubin data and the densely-sampled observations planned in commissioning and science validation.
```

not sure we can really call it "extensive time" especially given later discussion of the expected reductions

Reviewer 2: True - this is out of date now.

\subsection{Definition of Early Science}  \label{ssec:defn}

Early Science (ES) is defined as any science enabled by Rubin for its community through and including the first data release, \drone.

> DR1 is the first planned release of static-sky data products. 

Reviewer: Is that true? What about DP0, DP1, and DP2? Those all include static-sky data products. Maybe this sentence needs to add "from LSST"

Reviewer 4: "from the full LSST survey" -- readers may not appreciate Rubin v. LSST

Reviewer 2: yes, from the full survey and in the baseline plan. This document describes the addition of data previews. I will add Robert's clarification be remove any ambiguity

Reviewer 2: although - looks like I had already rewritten this part before I saw your comments.

It will be based on the first 6 months of data and released 12 months after the start of full survey operations.  
Alerts to transient, variable and moving objects are produced by the LSST Prompt Processing pipelines via Difference Image Analysis (DIA), which creates difference images by subtracting a template image \footnote{Templates are transient-free coadds produced by stacking previous images such as to remove the flux of any transient or moving object.} from each new image acquired, and then identifying sources in the difference image. 
Without templates for a given pointing and filter, there can be no Alerts.

> Templates are produced during Data Release Processing (DRP) and initially released as part of DR1, so in year 1 there will be no templates from which to generate alerts, and hence no Alerts.

Reviewer: Strongly agree with Eric's point regarding conditional wording. 

It might be even better to significantly modify the sentence to avoid confusion, for example,
"Templates are normally produced during Data Release Processing (DRP) and would initially be released as part of DR1, so separate processing campaigns would be needed to produce templates and generate alerts prior to DR1."

> Templates are produced during Data Release Processing (DRP) and initially released as part of DR1, so in year 1 there will be no templates from which to generate alerts, and hence no Alerts.

Reviewer 2: I worry that this would set an expectation that that we would put a dedicated processing campaign in place to produce templates.

> Templates are produced during Data Release Processing (DRP) and initially released as part of DR1, so in year 1 there will be no templates from which to generate alerts, and hence no Alerts.

Reviewer 3: We _will_ do some kind of dedicated processing to make incremental templates, though.  Whether or not you call that a "campaign" depends on your definition, but the images won't coadd themselves :-)

The Early Science Program has been conceived with the goal of providing science-ready data products to the Rubin community during the time between commissioning and the first LSST Data Release, DR1.

\subsection{Elements of the Early Science Program}

The \esp consists of the following elements:
\begin{itemize}
	\item A series of ``Data Previews'' based on reprocessed data taken during the Rubin Observatory commissioning period. The first, Data Preview 1 (DP1) will be based on ComCam data and the second, Data Preview (DP2) based on LSSTCam data. 
	\item Template generation prior to the start of regular survey operations based on data collected during the commissioning period with the LSST Camera (LSSTCam) to maximize the number of templates available for Alert Production at the start of the 10-year survey.

> 	\item Incremental generation of templates during the first year of survey operations, as and when sufficient images passing quality cuts have been acquired. These templates will then be used immediately during year 1 to generate alerts, thus steadily increasing the number of Alerts generated over the course of year 1. 

Reviewer: Suggest to simplify as 
"Incremental generation of templates during the first year of survey operations once sufficient images passing quality cuts have been acquired."

The first of these, Data Preview 0 (DP0), was released to a group of early adopters from the community in June 2022 and is based on the DESC DC2 simulated dataset, \citep{2021ApJS..253...31L}. 
Subsequent Data Previews, DP1 and DP2 will be based on the data acquired during  commissioning from ComCam and LSSTCam Science Validation Surveys (SV Surveys) respectively, together with any additional science-quality data taken throughout the full commissioning period.

A key component of the \esp is the generation of templates from both the commissioning data and data collected during the first year of the survey.
In full survey operations, template images for difference image analysis and alert generation are constructed as part of the annual DRP.
In order to support alert generation in year 1, Rubin will generate templates from all science-grade data taken during commissioning to provide an initial template library at the start of the 10-year survey, and the incrementally generate templates during year 1 using the best images available and covering as much sky in as many filters as possible.

> Details of the current strategy for alert generation  with incremental templates are given in  \S~\ref{sec:pp}.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph seems a bit duplicative of the one in section 2.1 above as well as the bullets in this section.  Suggest looking for opportunities to trim

Reviewer 2: I have removed the text in 2.1 to keep the definition of ES simple

\subsection{Early Science scenarios } \label{ssec:scenarios}

Recent planning on the construction project has led to a reduced amount of on-sky time in commissioning, including a reduction in the time dedicated to final science validation of the as-built system compared to earlier draft plans.

> The total amount science validation time currently planned during commissioning is 8 weeks. 

Reviewer: "total amount of science validation time"

As Rubin construction moves through the challenging phase of System Integration, Test and Commissioning (SIT-COM), on--sky time could be further reduced.

> The Operations team is tracking the progress of the commissioning activities as they relate to \es opportunities to ensure that the community has prompt access to science-ready data products while the survey begins its relentless coverage of the sky leading to DR1.

Reviewer: Consider "prompt" -> "timely" since prompt has a specific meaning in the context of prompt processing.

We broadly envisage two possible scenarios emerging from the commissioning phase of the construction project: 

\begin{itemize}
\item \textbf{Scenario A}:
The full commissioning plan comprising system optimization and science validation is successfully executed as planned. 

> The Operations team then carries out an Operations Readiness Review (ORR) to effectively conduct a "full dress rehearsal" of science operations and demonstrate the readiness of the Operations team to execute the 10-year survey. 

Reviewer 4: The ORR doesn't conduct a dress rehearsal.  Do you mean that we'd report on a dress rehearsal at ORR?

Reviewer 2: No - that was not what I was thinking but I realise now that this not clear - will rephrase

Reviewer 2: Replaced with "Operations Rehearsal and Readiness Review (ORR) to effectively conduct a "full dress rehearsal" of science operations and demonstrate the readiness of the Operations team to execute the 10-year survey. " 

- I mean to state that Ops will do an operations rehearsal .. then an (probably internal) review of our state of readiness
